The online sector is growing double
digit per year, now in fashion in
Europe, weighing between 11% and 13%
in Spain and is estimated to
be the most popular online market.
I think there are sectors in which
the digital channel will reach very
high, almost absolute, quotas.
I believe that in the fashion sector,
physical retail will always have
its space because the fact of choosing
the clothes, seeing them, etc.,
is difficult to replace.
I think the experience still likes.
A recent study says that by 2020,
online sales will account
for 20% of all mobile phone sales.
That is, that 80% will
still be in retail.
Of course, there is
a huge growth.
In fact, in the retail part, sales
growth in traffic in stores
is approximately between 2
and 3 percentage points.
They sell growth.
In the shops.
People are increasingly going to shops
and buying more online.
We are talking about falls of 2-3% in
the concept of football, that this
is measured.
Then you are right.
Retail will continue to be relevant,
it is also a profitable channel
and is very relevant.
And indeed there are movements such
as the purchase of Whole Foods,
although we change the sector,
by Amazon, which are online
players that are going to
retail.
That is not simply because of the
issue of margin, but it is a
combination of several factors.
You have a lot of volume still there,
it's a point that can serve as a
distribution point.
In the case of Amazon, this is very clear.
It is a point that can serve to build
a brand and it is a point that can
serve as a pick-up, to collect
and make a little omnicanal, which
is one of the challenges that
the sector has.
With which, undoubtedly, online is
a model, a huge opportunity and also,
amongst the comics, disruptive.
And there are also new players in
a market that is actually traditional
brands that are consolidating,
then we will talk about whether it
is very fragmented or not, but in
any case it is beginning to have
some consolidation, although it is
very fragmented, disappear physical
retailers, but appear online very
potent, specialized
in mode, purely online, for example,
Asos and Zalando, are purely
marketplaces, also
have the retail part and
are doing some experiment
in the physical world.
In fact, Zalando a few weeks
ago opened some experimental
stores in Berlin, then you have
Alibaba that did for the 11th of
11, which is a Chinese party that
sells a lot, made a pop-up in
Madrid, they are beginning
to experiment and are really
very powerful in the online world.
Yes, the truth is that the trend, and
Zalando I did not know, but for example
Amazon is clear, the trend of the
large online retailers to open
physical sales points is something
very clear and it is something I
think is representative that
the physical selling point will
not die, because among other things,
as you said, they are generated
synergistic, that is, they support
their online business through
physical sales points.
Alibaba is working, it is about
to set up a 20,000 square meter
European branded shopping
center in China, with which
it is a sign.
I still do not see it as something
established, I think that movements
are being made that are more pilot,
experiments and I think that probably
in fashion is not the easiest place
to do so, because it is very difficult
to choose the range, when these
online brands have a range of
thousands and thousands and thousands
of references, it is difficult
to put them in a physical space.
With a supermarket, like in the
case of Whole Foods, you have
an assortment that is obviously
giant, but you have to have what
you have to have, with obviously
a few ranges.
But yes, there are obviously very
scary things happening in the
online world.
The online world, I think that
speaking of this topic, which is that
it comes out a lot in the press,
people talk a lot, if the retail
disappears or not disappears,
I think it depends a lot on the
sectors.
We participate in an app where
you can buy lottery and the
value that this app brings to you
with respect to buying at the
point of sale is bestial, because
the point of sale does not
bring you any value.
Then the point of sale, because obviously
I don't know how the digital channel
of the lottery world will grow,
but it will end up ravaging the
point of sale, but it's that there
are other sectors in which not, because
the advice or the physical
product.
We are already talking about buying
something physical that you try.
For in the case of fashion,
I think that growth, as you said,
will be slower and will
never be majority.
Yes, there are many technological
developments around the experience
of testing a garment.
You have some fitting recommenders,
there are several applications and
several companies that do.
Amazon bought, I think it'
s recently called Skylabs
for $100 million,
which basically does you
scan your body to see
how it can fit a garment.
Well, there are a lot of people who are
already on Asos, for example, use
the videos instead of the
photographs so that one can see not
only the photo of the garment, but how
the garment falls, the weight it
has when it turns, how the
garment will behave.
There are pretty fun experiments
with virtual models to make passages,
which are models that really
look like people, are made
by computer, and everything
is more like a garment, then
you pass them the pattern.
It is incipient, in fact this has
been several years, and I agree
with you that in the end, especially
the experience of touching the garment
is very difficult to replace,
but it is technologically advancing
and new borders and new
horizons will be opened.
As we are walking was thinking
another point in favor of physical
retail in your sector, and is that
for certain people the go shopping
in clothes is entertaining,
that is an experience that
nobody goes to the bank for experience,
nobody will buy, I don't know,
what I said, lottery for experience,
is not a purely functional issue,
but in your case it is a bit different
because there is still some
experience in going, in seeing,
in trying you, etc., that
that from your home doesn'
t happen.
This you mention is key, it is a possible
differentiating factor, it is
generating a different customer
experience.
In luxury brands it is very
clear, they have had it for many
years, fast fashion also does,
obviously with a much
smaller budget, but it is
something that becomes very
relevant.
For example, let's put an example,
and that in addition to brands make
flagships, many times they are
not profitable, but they are a
way to build a brand and transfer
an image to the customer, because
what we sell as fast fashion
brands, what is sold, is not
only covering the need to dress
someone, but transfer an
image, an experience, emotions.